# 雅思口语2021.9-12

## Barbecue

- Yes, chinese people love barbecue. But chinese barbecue is somewhat different from that in western countries. For example, chinese people prefer to cut meat into small pieces before grilling, while foreigners like to grill a whole piece of meat directly.
- Yes, definately. When a was a child, my parents always took me to a countryside where have many fresh meat and vegetables. We barbecued there. The potato was really crisp,  the meat was tender and juicy. It's really scrumptious
- I like all types of barbecue food. It depends on what mood I am in. Sometimes when I am particularly hungry, I'd like to eat barbecue meat, such as beef and lamb. Other times I just enjoy some barbecue vegetables like eggplant and mushrooms.
- I enjoy barbecue with anyone. Though, of course, eating with different people will have different experience. When I eat with my family, I'd like to talk about the recent international events. But when I eat with my friends, I prefer to discuss something that for teenagers such as TV shows and video games.

## Car Trip

- I once travelled all the way to the farthest end of XiZang province by car. It was a trip that I undertook with my families. At that time I had finished my exams so that my parents took me to their by car. It must have been around 2,000 km all together.
- I like to sit in back of the car. Because most of the time I was sitting alone in the back row so that I can even lie on the seat. It's really comfortable and I can even have a good sleep.
- Definately. For the reason that there are some place that public transport cannot reach. Especially in countryside. Driving car is more flexable and comfortable, that's the reason why.
- Reguarlly, I don't need car to get to school. So in my family. We only drive the car out in weekend or holiday.

## Wild Animal

- Yes. When I was a kid, my parents loved to show me documentaries about wildlife. I fund it's quite interesting because there are so many special animals that I never heard about.
- Probably, although I don't remember learning anything in particular. I have so many animals facts just lying around in my brain. So I suppose maybe my teachers or my parents told me about that. I remember that most textbook will cover the knowledge about protect endangerious animals such as pandas and golden monkey
- There are many wildlifes in the countryside. While the best approach to know about wild animals is to visit safaris. In china, almost every cities have it's own wild animal zoos. So we can even sit in a cage car and observe wildlife closely.
- Australia should have a lot of wildlife such as Koala and kangaroo, I've heard that Australia has more species of wildlife than even other countries combined. I cannot remember the detail.

## Festival

- In China, we often celebrate festivals by getting together as a family and having a dinner. This is the most basic and fundamental means of celebrating. Though of course we do other things too.  Lighting fireworks and eating special food is also popular in our country.
- There are many different types of food we eat during a festival. Dumpling are popular during the New Year, Moon Cakes are suited for Mid-Autumn Festival. Zongzi are popular at Dragon Boat Festival.
- I celebrate it by going back too my hometown and celebrating with my extended families. Including my grandparents, my parents, my aunts , ancle and two of my brothers. We can have New Year's Eve dinner and set off firecrackers together. A lantern will also be hang on the door as a symble of peace and lucky.

## Wallet

- When I was in school, I used it because I need to carry some cash with me. But now all of us pay by Alipay so that wallet is not necessary.
- I have lost it, five years ago when I was traveling I left it in a game room with my ID inside the wallet. Fortunately I recovered it, otherwise I wouldn't even have been able to take the train  back to home.
- Never have I sent wallet to someone as a gift. In China, wallets are no longer very practical. I always send a book to others rather than a wallet.
- No not yet. As I mentioned before, Wallets are rarely used in China recently. So the people around me don't use it unless they meet some occation that they cannot carry out their smarthone.

## Relax

- I like to relax by reading a book or by watching a movie. But I believe the best way to relax is hanging around the city with friends. I can chat with them instead of puting my eyes on the screen.
- Maybe it's not a kind of relaxation. Doing some sport like playing badmiton or playing soccor must make the people concentrate on the ball, with a intensive mind. After the exercise, you will instead be more tired. Physically and psychologically.
- Yes. Having a holiday means a person can allocate his schedual freely. So he can do whatever he wants to do to relax, such as staying at home all day, or going on a trip.
- I would say so, yes. Students are under an extraordinary amount of pressure for their academic performence in school so they have to study hard. So I think it would be really good for studetns to have more time to relax, just to take the pressure off.

## Special Costumes

- It's demend on the occations. If we have some festival party, I'll be happy to wear a weird clothes. For example, in Hallowin, I'd like to wear a cloak with blood on it. That's quite fun. But in general I only want to wear a plain shirt. I don't want to be the special one.
- When I was a child, I would often hold events where I would wear some special clothes. For example, there was a chorus competition and I wore a suit. That was the first time I wore something so formal
- It was the sport meeting last seminar. All of our class wore a weird suit to take a show. I felt a little awkward about it.
- Never had I brought such a special costume. Only when the special occation I'll wear special clothes. Otherwise I'll never buy it.

## Primary School

- I used to enjoy playing with my friends mostly in primary school. The time in between classes was my favourite. I played some card game with my classmate. We also doing some sport in the playground, such as playing badmiton or kicking soccer. That's quite fun.
- Most of time my mother would take me to school by her bike. But some times if her was busy on her work. I would walk to school by my self. The school was also  in our community, there was a only one kilometer way.
- Primary school was great. There was no real pressure on me and I had lots of time to play with my friends. I remember having a great time most days, though to be fair my teachers seemed a lot scarier than any of my high school teachers ever did.
- I remember we had a huge playground so every break time my friends and I would go out onto it and kick a ball around. Or, if we had no ball, we would play tag or play games with collectible cards. Some times if it was raining I used to stay in the classroom and painting.

## Flower

- I don't know that many flowers of the top of my head to be honest. They're nice to look but they're not something I am particularly interested in. I can only remember some common flowers such as rose, lily, forget-me-not and sunflower
- There are few I think. The peony is probably the most representative flower in China. It's a symble of elegant and dignity. In the Tang Dynasty, only the emperor could grow this flower
- Sadly, I have not grown flowers myself. I have lived in the city since I was born, and I didn't have the opportunity to try this kind of activities
- Yes, I remember when in techer's day I sent a sunflower to my teacher. As my thanks to them for teaching us all the time. In mother's day I sent my mother a carnation. Expressing pure maternal love

## Advertisement

- I always watched some food or restaurant advertisement when I shopping in a shopping mall. It seems to attracted me to have a dinner here. But I never believe it, even though the dishes that appear on their ads are so tempting.
- I can even see them everywhere. When I want to watch a video in youtube, I had to watch a five-second long advertisement before.  When I was waking on a street, I can find advertisement can appear in bus stops or even on buses
- I never buy an item because of an ad because I think the ad will only show the good parts of the item and I have to be sure I can live with the bad aspects of it.
- It depends on whether the ad is creative or not. Some ad plots are so interesting that I don't even know what product it is advertising until I see the end.

## Sky and stars

- Do you like to look at the sky? Why?
- Yes, when I want to relax my eyes, I will go to the balcony and look at sky. In day time, I can find cloud and even plane on the sky. In evening I can see moon and stars on the sky.
- Can you see the moon and stars at night where you live?
- Definately I can see moon. It's hard to see star. Because the air polution and the light polution.
- Do you prefer the sky in the morning or the sky at night?
- I have no strong opinion on it. Both are alright.
- Is there a good place to look at the sky where you live?
- I believe the balcony is a great place for me to observe the sky. Because my parents have brought an antronomical telescope for me so I can even see the creator on the moon.
- Do you like to see the stars at night?
- Yes, my parents have brought an antronomical telescope for me so I can even see the creator on the moon.
- Do you want to live on other planets?
- No, definitely not. For one, most planets are uninhabitable. The gas giants are too cold and Mercury and Venus are way too hot. I think taht the idea of living on Mars is intriguing to some people but not me. Life there would be very difficult.

## Environmental Protection

- Would you like to work in a company related to environmental protection
- Yes, I think that would be a very fulfilling job. It would be nice to go to work everyday and feel as though you were doing something meaningful and beneficial for the planet. I feel like it might be a demaning job, but for sure I would like to give it a try.
- How can we protect the environment?
- There several approaches to protect it, from individual to the government. As an individual, I believe we can recycling our trash, remembering to turn lights off, walking instead of driving, consuming less etc.
- Do you think you've done enough to protect the environment?
- I don't think so. Because sometimes, when I shopping in the supermarket, I'll foget to carry my own cloth bag. So that I can only take a plastic bag to carry the things I bought away. Therefore, I believe my contious on environment protection should be improved.
- Is there education about environmental protection at school.
- Definately, when I'm a primary school studets. The teacher told us to protect environment in detail. When we kicked ball on the playground and forget to turn the light of, the headmaster would scold us.

## Holiday

- Where did you go for your last holiday
- I went to chongqing with 4 of my classmate last summer vocation for a week. That's a quite funny trip. We tasted many scrumptious local snack and visited a serious of historical buildings.
- Do you like holidays? Why?
- I believe that no one can refuse a holiday right?   Vacation means you are free to organize your own schedule. You can stay at home or just have a short trip.
- Which pulic holiday do you like best?
- The national day, definately. First, it's the longest statuory holiday in china. What's more, It was autumn at that time, so this holiday was a golden week for tourism.
- What do you do on holidays?
- stay at home or have a trip.

## App

- Social Software → Q Q & Wechat
- Video App → bilibili
- Payment Software → Alipay
- Especially recommand → Notion → A note-taking software → practical

- I like to use apps that have a very single function, I mean, A software should focus on doing one thing well. If it's a chat app, I don't want it have the function of games. Because it means the whole software will become redundant and slow

- Maybe Q Q, I guess. It was 10 years ago that I had my first smartphone, I found all classmate around me used it. So I download one and tried to chat on internet with others by this App

- I have no idea about it . To be honest, I believe the more concise of the app, the better. That's the reason I like to use the app on iPhone.

## Color

- Blue → Blue is considered to be the safest color in the world. It represent the essence of nature. I mean, both the ocean and sky are blue. It's really beautiful
- I am not very fond of crimson, which is the color of blood, when I was a child watching horror movies caused a traumal to me. So when I see this kind of color, I'll remember the terrible scene I've watched before

## Weather

- Cloudy day is the best. It's not as hot as sundays and it's also not that moist than in raining days.I consider it the most comfortable.
- Wuhan has only two seasons in the year, summer and winter. Spring and autumn tend to last for a very short period of time. It seemst that swetering in summer and freezing in winter. I cannot even bear it. So I alwasy stay at home and turn on my air conditioner.
- I prefer to live in dry weather. Living in moist weather even makes me stuffy. Especially in summer. I can't even breath on that occation.

## Getting Lost

- yes, when I was a child my parents took me to purchase things in a supermarket. While there were too many people so that we got seprated. I felt nervous at that time I thought that my parents had discarded me. Fortunately, eventually they found me.
- child → Ask others help, such us policeman or the salesman in a supermarket, they will broadcast your information to your parents.
- adult → you have your smartphone → Find the way by map or navigation apps
- A year ago I was wandering around the campus when an international student asked me how to get to the cafeteria, I told him that he can go straight

# Part 2

## 海边活动

- Constructing Sandcastle
- famous activity around the world
- visit beach → see this kind of activities
- equipment → nothing special → spade and bucket → having nothing → by hand
- Honest → not difficult → depend on expectation → splendid castle with series sections → quite conplex and difficult → or just need unleashing creativity → construct in your mind
- why → several reasons
    1. no prerequisite skills
    2. cheap
    3. cooperating skills

## 立法

- Now → CNG 完成 adopt legi → protect env
- One of laws I know about is a new tax had been levied to companies which
- It was 3 years ago → when watching news program on TV. → ATT → The National People's Congress has just finished → many laws were put up with. The law I mentioned before is one of them.
- It seems that government and all individuals benefited from it. G can devote less effort to rebuild the environment citizens can living in a better condition.
- However, I believe it's not an appropriate law. Money notihing big corporation. transfer costs by improve the price
- Eventually, It's consumer that pay for
- I suppose government should strict laws → ban from operating until they stop

## 雇员很多的公司

- Foxconn
- near the place I live in
- Foxconn's main business is manufacturing electronic devicies
- apple, dell, intel → design → they product it.
- 6 millions of employee.
- Most of them are workers.
- Just working along the assemble line with low salary
- disgust
    - whole company like a mechine
    - People who work in the company are not like people, but like parts
    - Encourage staff to overload → continuously and ceaselessly
    - Humanless and squeese their employees.
- Never had I will go to such a company in the future
    
    

## 手工

- I still remember in my second grade science class my teacher gave us a week to make a paper bridge
- He wanted our bridge to be able to bear the heaviest possible weight
- I was a bit overwhelmed at first, because I had no confidence to complete it.
- Never had I done this kind of craft before.
- When I came to home, I searched it on Google.
- To my surprise, there was a lot of guidence on the Internet, from principles to practice
- I learned that the cylinder is the most load-bearing structure
- So I planed to use this struct as a base of the whole bridge.
- I prepared the paper and tapes, rolling up the paper and use the glue to fix it
- In the next step I used four rolls of this paper to form bridge deck
- Then I rolled two thicker paper rolls as piers
- Finally reinforced with tape
- During the test I found that it can actually withstand a weight of 5kg， which really suprised me.
- I think it was a meaningful activity, from which I exercised my hands-on skills and my ability to find information.

## 安静的地方

- library in the campus
- In the orientation of our colleage → Instructor
- Everyone obeyed the rules, so it was very quiet.
- Depend on the seasons
- In summer and winter - > almost everyday
- Spring and Winter - > often
- Many activities here → basically, study here, doing homework or reading books
- Further more, we can hire public space to hold a meeting or discussion.
- It has just been renovated, everything is new and very comfortable to use
- I don't have to worry about being disturbed when I study there

## 社交媒体的趣事

- In this contemporary epoch, social media has become an indispensable part of our lives.
- Although social media has a boatload of time wastage content, some of information posted is interesting.
- Last year I watched an interesting video on a social networking website by name of bilibili.
- The video was regarding technology.
- This blogger I follow converted his bike to an autopilot
- His bike can balance itself at a standstill
- It even have a camera in front of the bike to capture the image around the environment.
- And a microcontroller in the center of the bike can analyse the environment based on neural network. Afterwards, instructions are sent out to control the speed and direction of the motor
- As a student studying engineering, I think it's remarkable that this blogger has combined all his knowledge to produce a finished product with a high degree of completion
- I can't even imagine this being done by a student.

## 高楼

- Wuhan Greenland Center is a super high-rise landmark skyscraper in Wuhan, which Situated next to the Yangtze River
- It was origionally designed to be 636 meters, and only for some reason was it limited to 500 meters
- The whole building is a large complex, including shopping malls, restaurants, cinemas and office buildings
- The cross-section of the building is a "clover" shape, symbolizing the three towns of Wuhan
- The entire exterior of the building is embedded with LED lights, so that at night the entire building becomes a giant curtain, displaying a variety of patterns
- it gives me one more option to visit when I want to hang out with friends.
- Another reason is that as a Wuhan resident, having a landmark like this makes us more proud on the development of the city.

## 帮助朋友的经历

- At the end of last semester,
- help my classmate to finish her programming project before deadline
- Because there are many exams to prepare for at the end of the semester, there is not much time left for this project. I am very good at this, so I submitted my whole project early. Lucy, however, was not very interested in this area, so she put it off until the last day before the deadline.
- I helped him because first of all, at that time I had nothing to do, it was only natural to help my classmates, and secondly because I also wanted to take this opportunity to continue to improve my programming skills
- I divided the whole project to two part, She will conceive the overall framework and I will help her with the details. Just because the deadline was 10 o'clock next day. We must burn the midnight oil. We didn't do all the work until six o'clock the next morning.
- Although I was very tired that night, I helped my classmate solve a big problem. She was also appriciate on me.
- I believe it's a arduous but rewarding deal.

## Share

- shared house with my dormmate
- Last summer
- Since we needed to move campuses, we also had to move dorm rooms together, however, our new dorm rooms were very annoying, so we desperately needed to rent an apartment around the school
- However when I approached an agency for a consultation, I found that I could not afford the house rent. If I rent an apartment by myself, I need 2000RMB a month. So I asked if anyone wanted to rent an apartment with me, and my two roommates and I hit it off right away. Eventually I shared the house with them and I only need to pay for one third of the rent.
- It's a great sharing such a space with my best friends. I really recommend people try it out.

## Local News

- A piece of news, local news, that I think has interested a lot of people in my city, is the construction of East Lake Greenway.
- I had read a few years ago that it was about to start construction, and I didn't realize it was now almost complete. This greenway will run through the entire East Lake, and visitors are free to travel through the major attractions by this way.
- Of course, this greenway is closed to vehicles, so people can explore by bicycle or on foot.
- I learned about this news in one of our local newspapers, when I happened to pass by a newspaper kiosk and saw the big words on the newspaper it was selling.
- I think people living around East Lake will participate in this because they can have a space for recreation and exercise
- People who want to visit Wuhan will be interested in this because it means that Wuhan has more tourist attractions

## Singer

- My favourite singer is Jack Chou
- Jack Chou was a singer who was popular in the 2000's, but also popular in the later years too.
- He was incredibly famous all over the China and his music was listened to by people of all backgrounds and age groups.
- is really
- is a very __ person
- __ is such an __ guy
- patriotic → He always thought Chinese songs were the best
- confidence → In his lyric → He once said: I want to be the emperor in music
- warm → He loved his wife and children. When his wife posts a picture of herself on social media, he will immediately run to like it
- All of the above are my impressions of Jay himself, however it is his songs that really appeal to me.
- Blues, JAZZ, Country, RAP, etc
- I feel that his songs hit me right in the soul

## 街市购物

- I remember the time I went to Sanya few years ago.
- It is well known that Sanya is rich in seafood so we wondered to visit some local street market to purchase some special seafood.
- When we entered the bazaar, I was shocked by the rich variety of seafood inside
- Each type of seafood will be displayed in a glass water tank, and if a customer wants to buy it, they can take a net and fish it out themselves
- At that time, I saw a tremendous crabs, the label beside told me it's called king crab. I wanted to taste it. However, when I saw the price, I can't believe such a crab charged thousands of dollar. It's impossible for me to affort it.
- Finally we just choose to buy some lobster with scallops, and sea fish
- Then we found a restaurant to help us process the seafood we just bought
- The lobster meat was quite tender and juicy. Never had I tasted so scrumptious seafood.
- I think the shopping was worthwhile because I got to try a lot of food that is impossible to eat in my hometown

## 喜欢的电影

- Ready Player One
- I came out to watch it with 7 of my high school classmates 4 years ago. At that time we were forbidden to leave the school. However, we went out over the wall for this movie.
- It tells the story of an boy who has nothing in real life and is addicted in virtual reality games. The creator of the game is the richest man in the world, and he told everyone at the time of his death: whoever can find the three keys he left in the game, will inherit all his inheritance. The boy with a deep understanding of the virtual game designer finally gathered all the keys
- there are so much bonus scene included in this movie.
- If you are a game player in the 1990s. You will find
- You will find that many of the characters of the games you have played before have appeared on the screen
- Gamers want to be told that the games we spend countless hours of our youth playing are meaningful.
- Providing gamers with the sense of identity and presence they need most.

## 很多人笑的场合

- I remember a time five years ago when we had a math class in high school. The teacher was supposed to be explaining a test paper and we were all feeling very bored. So one of my classmates, Jack, took out his phone and prepared to play a game. However, he forgot one very important thing: turn off the sound of his phone. When he realized this, it was already too late. You know, every time you enter the game interface, it will be accompanied by a loud entrance music. The whole class heard this sound and Jack became very embarrassed. But what made us laugh the most was that our teacher didn't know what was going on, he just noticed that suddenly the class became noisy, which caused us to laugh even louder. Although our teacher still didn't figure out why we were laughing at the end, I still find it hard to forget that scene.

## 想提升的天赋

- Programming
- Actually, I hadn't realized that I got this talent until I attend the university 3 years ago.
- We have several courses in the university. One of them was Java.
- At first we just learned its syntax and I found it hard to remember so many points, but once I mastered that, I found I was very sensitive to the whole code logic, which meant I could quickly find the key points when solving the problem. So I believe I might have a talent in this field
- However, I feel to enhance the talent, there are many approaches.
- First of all, I should read some classic books in this area and learn about some theories that others already have. After that, then combine these theories with continuous practice
- I think it is a very practical talent that helps me solve many problems that will arise in my daily life. For example, when I have a lot of data to process, I can write a program to process them automatically.

## puzzle

- A crossword is a word puzzle that usually takes the form of a square or a rectangular grid of white- and black-shaded squares. The game's goal is to fill the white squares with letters, forming words or phrases, by solving clues, which lead to the answers. In languages that are written left-to-right, the answer words and phrases are placed in the grid from left to right ("across") and from top to bottom ("down"). The shaded squares are used to separate the words or phrases.
- I played this puzzle game in the English class when I was in the primary school. But I felt this is very difficult. Because at the beginning I had no clue at all. The only way is to keep trying. However, once I filled out one or two words, everything went smoothly. I could determine the initials of the next word to be filled in based on the words I had already filled in.
- Eventually The whole puzzle took me half an hour in total.
- Interesting
- Meaningful
- Improve the proficiency on words I learned about.
- incentive → encourage → memery words effectively.

## 朋友争执

- Two of my friends from university once had a big argument.
- Both of them were my roommates and we always discussed things before going to bed. I remember it was one night about a year ago, and we got into a conversation about whether or not a writer's personality should be used to negate all of that writer's work. There was a Taiwanese writer named Lung Ying-tai, who had been proven to be a Taiwan independence activist, which, mind you, would not be tolerated in China. So one of my roommates, Jack, said that all of this writer's books should be banned. Another roommate of mine, Anke, admires this author and he thinks that this author's books are very well written, so his books should not be banned for the author's personal problems.
- We eventually convinced Jack that the writer's political stance had nothing to do with his work.
- I think this kind of discussion is very interesting and allows us to brainstorm and stimulate our creativity.

## 重要设备

- The most important piece of equipment in my home is the washing maching
- I use it nearly every day and I would hate to lose it. Using such a machine can increase the convenience of our life and It's a necessities for me.
- There are many appliances in my house. A dryer, a coffee maker etc. All thing  that mean I don't need to waste precious minutes of the day tinkering away at mindless tasks.
- In the apartment of our university, there is no washing meching. The only way to wash clothes is by hand.
- That's quite annoying and frustrating.
- I must take half an hour to do it everyday. → Time consuming.
- If I have many clothes to wash → physically demanding
- It's not only just me that uses the washing machine every day, my parents also use it.
- We will put the clothes changed from the previous day's bath into the wash together, so it will be more efficient
- I guess most of people will agree with me that the washing mechine is the most cost effective and important appliance in home.

## 学习之外的活动

- In my free time, I enjoy playing badmiton. I play it once or twice a week at the stadium in our campus. Sometimes I play with my brother, sometimes I play with my friends. I started playing badmiton when I was ten. My parents got me into it because they wonder me to have a balanced development. At first I feel it's too hard. While when I got it, I found that it is a good exercise to fit myself. Often I'd like hold a competition with my friends. However, I don't really care about the gam, or who wins. I just like having a laugh with them and getting a party afterwards.
- I think this activity is first of all very healthy, it can help me exercise, and secondly, it can also exercise my social skills, I can chat with my friends while playing badminton, which makes us not so awkward

## 生活计划

- I often quite focused on my studies and I often don't have time to make plans in life that aren't geared to my work or study. But I do have one plan that isn't related to study, or even to my career, and that is to travel.
- I have always been interested in travel and have managed to do a bit of it from time to time.
- A year ago in the summer before we went to Chongqing, I made a detailed travel plan beforehand
- First of all, I looked up the tips of those who have visited before on the Internet, and after that, I filtered these, because some people will visit there for half a month, and we only have a week to do so. The next step was to choose the tourist attractions with our personal preferences. We were not interested in certain ancient buildings, so we did not plan to go there. Finally I made the best trip plan for us
- I will felt proud if it's success. Because It made our whole trip very fulfilling and reduced the uncertainty of the whole trip .I plan to do the same on my next trip.

## 不太成功的经历

- It was one years ago that the Dean of my department asked me to take part in a competition. She said that it was such a wonderful opportunity to present myself. Since I have zero expericnce on such a competition, I refused to do that. But after his encouragement, I was peresuaded into the competition.
- It took me a long period to prepare the competition. The competition needed us to release our creativity to hold an innovative idea and write an eassay on it.
- I decided to make an application which served for international student for communication.
- We reviewed a lot of information and finally submitted our paper, however, we were wiped out in the first round of selection.
- We found that the other groups were clearly more creative and more practical. This was something we didn't expect at all. Maybe because it was our first time to participate in the competition and we had no experience, or maybe because our mentors didn't give us much guidance and feedback, so we just had to feel our way through.

## Cafe

- dessert
- Neyark cheese and the black forest
- Also some kind of beverage
- milk chocolate and many coffee, such as Americano Cappucino, Mocha
- Hang out with friends, just have a chat.
- Sometimes go there by myself → carry my macbook → study

## 有创造力的人

## 机智解决问题的人

## 尊敬的老人

## 社交媒体的趣事

## 佩服的商人

- LeiJun
- Lei Jun is the chairman of Xiaomi, which is a global mobile Internet company focusing on the development of smart hardware and electronic products
- It was 10 years ago that I knew him by his company. At that time, Their company's cell phone only sells for 2,000 yuan, while other companies even sell the same type of product for 6,000 yuan. So that I became a fan of XiaoMI.
- After that I found the chairman of Xiaomi, was a quite legend. He took only 2 years to graduate from WuHan university and become an investor in 2000. Until 2010, He set up his own company xiaoMi. The company's goal at the time was to make smartphones available to all Chinese people. They have adopted the strategy of selling more at a lower price. Xiaomi is now the number one cell phone brand in terms of market share
- But what really makes me adimire him is that his investor tactic. He never invests in a company, he only invests in people. He can see a person's future potential
- That's really shocked me.

## 浪费时间的活动

- Playing video game
- stressful for college entrance exam → playing video game to let off steam.
- I played it after I had finished all academic assignment. Usually it's evening.
- There are 2 reasons.
1. 打游戏会忘记时间，可能已经打了一个小时但你感觉才打几分钟
2. Sometimes I've actually played the game for hours, but in my mind I've only been playing for a few minutes
3. 打游戏并没有让你获得任何东西，甚至没有让你放松
4. Playing games doesn't get me anything, it doesn't even let me really relieve stress. When I play a game, I must concentrate on the screen, don't even have time to think about other things. 
- After found that, Never have I played video game now. When was stressful, I prefer to lisen to music or hang out with friends to outside.

## 小学印象深刻的人

- Science Teacher
- In the third grade we offered science classes
- Teaching method → Unlike other teachers who teach things by rote, such as English teachers and math teachers, our science teachers teach things so that we can figure them out from a theoretical point of view
- When he explain a phenomenon, he was showing us a experiment first. Then Let us be curious about the reasons for this phenomenon. After that he will from the basic principle to deduce the final result. It's he that cultivated my ability of critical thinking. I cannot forgot the knowledge he tought until now.
- Respect and appreciate → Without him, my physics grades would not be as good as they are now
- Regret → Some times disruptive in his classroom.

## 花费超标物品

- PC
- The november last year. Many e-commerce platform are on sale, so there are great discounts on electronics
- I wanted to assemble a desktop by my self, which means I planed to by the devices of a computer, such as CPU, graphical card, memory, main board and fans. At first my budget was only about 5,000 yuan. But when I browse the commditities, I found if I could pay extra 500 yuan, I can expand my memory to 32 giga bytes. Or if I pay extra 1000 yuan , I could get a CPU with higher performence.
- In the end, the actual price I spent far exceeded my budget . It's about 10 thousands yuan.
- However, I do not regret on it. Generally, such a configuration of my desktop will charged me over 15 thousands yuan. It's still maintained a high cost effectivity.

## 等待我的高考成绩

- Waiting for my high school entrance exam results. I remember it was three years ago on June 25, the day my college entrance exam results were to be released at 0:00.
- This result will determine the next four years of my life → quite special
- I waited at my computer desk, eyes glued to the computer screen, until the searchable button lit up
- I had very mixed feelings at that time. On the one hand, I was nervous because it was about my future life and I could feel my hands shaking uncontrollably, and on the other hand, I was a bit excited because I would soon be able to experience university life. It was an unforgettable experience!

## 希望养成的习惯

- My dormmate
- Doing things with full commitment
- I discovered this habit of his after one of the exams.
- I believe his academic performance was inferior than me. However, after each test he scored higher than me.
- I find that he does his best in everything he does, even though sometimes he is not capable
- Although my ability is better than his, I often think sometimes, since I can not do perfect, then just do not do
- This is what causes me to regret many times that I did not do my best to do a certain thing at that time. So I hope to learn this habit

## 有趣的外国人

- Rowan Atkinson → protagonist of the British Comedy Mr.Bean.
- When I was still in elementary school, I watched the movie Mr. Bean in which I starred. In the movie, he rarely spoke, but the rich body movements and changing expressions always made us laugh!
- funny, In his movie, In the movie, he is a silly, small-tempered, enthusiastic, childlike, pursuing, a small character image around us.
- In reality, he was a very low-profile, passionate philanthropist who donated over $200 million to Africa during his lifetime
- It is his completely different profile in the movie and outside the movie that makes me very interested in him. If I have a chance, I want to meet him in the future.

## 困难决定

## 有名的运动员

## 优质服务

## 善待不喜欢的人

## 激动的书

## 早起经历

## Creative Person

## Difficult Decision

## Famous Sportsman

## Person much order than you → admire

## Get up Early

## 自行车，汽车，摩托车旅行

## Difficult Skill

## Famous Company

## Activity After a day of work or study

## 买贵了的东西

## 成功的商人

## Social media

## A law should be enacted by government

## Business Person

## Waste of Time

## A place where cell phone is not allowed

## Imagination

## City you want to live in the future

## An interesting person from the other country

## Future Plan

## Good Habit Your Friends Have

## Cafe

## Exciting Books

## Expensive Products

## Get Up Early

## Bike/Car/Motor Drive

## Health Article

## City You Want To Live In the Future

## Good Service

## Sportperson

## Something you interested in

## 机智解决问题的人

## Business People who you are admire

## Interesting Social Media

## Activity You usually do when study / work ends

## A experience when you are friendly with the person who you don't like

## Advice you give to others

## A clever solution to a problem

## A skill that is difficult for you

## How you spend time on vocation

## Favorite famous people